### Question 1  

*Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?* 

I knew from a young age that I wanted to spend my life helping people, and I excelled primarily in my math and science classes growing up. So when I needed to declare a major at only 20 years old, it seemed natural to choose math with the pathway of becoming a teacher.  My mom was a teacher, and my dad owned a small local campground business so I unfortunately was not exposed to the technology or engineering types of fields to know what kinds of career opportunities came from them. As a teenager, I did help my dad build his company website by teaching myself basic HTML just by doing Google searches.  While there were a few online companies that offered website templates in the early 2000’s, I was intrigued by the idea that I could build it myself from scratch. I spent a summer on the website and enjoyed learning the basics of coding. My brother took over the business after my dad passed away and chose to hire a company to make the website look more professional, so the website I made no longer exists unfortunately. This was my primary exposure to the computer programming fields, and I imagined a career like this would look like people sitting in offices working on computers all day to make and run websites for companies. This vision didn’t align well with my primary goal of choosing a career to help people. I realize now how every single organization in the world needs some sort of support that comes from computer programming. Beyond that, there have been so many software applications developed for the purpose of helping disenfranchised groups of people through education, finances, communication, and probably so many other ways that I am not aware of.  However, I still see a large focus in technology that is meant to benefit large companies or people who can afford smart phones and drones and whatever other new obsessions pop up. I want to become a programmer to find ways to help the “unprofitable” groups of people that are overlooked.  
<br>
### Question 2  

*If you are accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years?* 

As stated in the prior question, I’d like to work for an organization that helps marginalized groups of people in some way. My experience in education has allowed me to work with a variety of underprivileged youth including immigrants to the U.S. with English as a second language, orphans in Peru, refugees from east Africa and eastern European countries, special education students, and children from impoverished families including many who are homeless in the Seattle area. I’m not sure if it would happen within the next five years, but I’ve had an idea of developing a certain type of application myself. The idea started when I was volunteering at Horn of Africa Services, a non-profit in south Seattle based in a refugee community from east Africa. I was helping a 6th grade girl with her homework where she had to write a story and then draw a picture along with it. I only remember that the story was about three girls, and she wanted me to draw the girls for her to color.  I wanted to draw them with hijabs so they would look like her and her friends at the center. She, to my surprise, very adamantly wanted the girls to have their hair free flowing and to also be white.  She couldn't verbalize why she wanted them to look this way, but obviously media and society has made an impression on her idea of what is “normal”.  I eventually convinced her to allow one of the girls to wear a hijab and told her that this is what real people look like, so her story should reflect reality.  This girl affected my views of underrepresentation in a big way. Over the past few years, I’ve had the idea of developing an application that would print children’s books where people get to design the way the main characters look.  I’ve been running many other details through my head about affordability and the types of stories told, but the main purpose of the application would be to allow underrepresented children to see themselves as the main character, as a leader, and as being empowered. After my time with Ada and some experience in the field, I hope I would develop the skills to some day create this program along with many others that would help marginalized groups.   
<br>
### Question 3  

*After reading Ada's Vision, Mission and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada's vision for an inclusive and diverse community?* 

As a white female, I would start by acknowledging my privilege. I believe allowing for an inclusive environment for diverse groups starts with the privileged group taking the time to listen to perspectives of those who too often don’t have a voice. Just listening. This allows me to be exposed to experiences that I may have blind spots to or assumption about. Getting these conversations out in the open would allow people to support each other, because we would all are more aware of each other’s perspectives. When white people say they are “colorblind” it disregards the fact that certain groups of people don’t have the same opportunities or assumptions made about them. This mindset, in turn, only perpetuates the oppression of certain groups by ignoring their hindrances. I opened myself up to this years ago by putting myself in situations where I was in the minority. I lived in Spain for a year where I was the immigrant speaking the broken language, and consequently assumed to be unintelligent.  I lived in a small village in Peru for 3 months where I got to see how a decent education unfortunately went hand in hand with your economic status, much more so than in the United States. I grew up on the Swinomish Reservation in a small town where half the population was Native American, and I worked with my Native American friends as a student body leader to organize assemblies and events that praised their traditions and culture.  I worked for 3 years at one of the most diverse high schools in Seattle to surround myself with different groups of people.  While there, I lead math lessons that analyzed the state test scores of the different races in the school and facilitated discussions with my majority African American classes about how our education system is perpetuating their oppression. I learned so much from my students. I’m currently working at a public charter middle school in literally one of the most diverse cities in the country (Kent). The school focuses on exposing marginalized groups to technology and engineering by requiring all students to take computer science and by infiltrating computational concepts into all of their other classes. Through my experiences in various settings around world and locally I believe I have a diverse perspective to offer but also could learn so much by continuing to surround myself with unique people. I believe its apparent through my past career choices that my mission as an individual is aligned with Ada’s mission to make a difference in the world, particularly for those who are underrepresented.   
<br>
### Question 4  

*Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?* 

I know it’s cliché to say that everyone makes mistakes, but for teachers that is an understatement.  I make mistakes on a daily basis, because the job requires quick thinking to unexpected situations that may arise with students and to do so in a warm yet stern way. The balance of being nurturing yet strict is something I still haven’t mastered in 5 years of teaching, so I make mistakes all the time but learn from each one.  I also sometimes make mistakes with presenting the content in an easy way that makes sense to students. My first period class usually gets the worst version of my lessons. I am able to pick out their misunderstandings during and after their lesson, but don’t have time to make accommodation or to fix things until the following day.  I fortunately get to try the lesson again with my other classes later in the day with the appropriate modifications, so I learn from my mistakes and act on them. One time I presented a lesson to my first period that completely flopped. I had prepared the material in a very confusing way and had to change it entirely for my next classes to come. Things went well with the later classes, but I had to fix things for my first period the following morning.  I first apologized to them to model that teachers make mistakes too, and that people should take ownership of their mistakes. Another large goal I have is for students to not be embarrassed about making mistakes (particularly in math), but to make light of them and learn from them. So I decided to allow the students to make light of my mistakes. I had them crumple up the notes we had taken the day before, stand on their desks, and play trash-sketball with papers.  We then made posters of the notes the other class had done the day before.  My first period students got to have their notes on display for the rest of the classes to see. The students love making posters, and especially having ownership of the classroom in some way. 



